---
layout: post
author: abaker8
title: "Amandas reflection on Brians post"
---
     For this blackjack game, I thought it was interesting how so many people did it so differently. Even between Brian and I, we had very similar concepts, just implemented in a different way. I think that it is interesting that such things such as our organization, milestones, ways we thought of creating the game and more is so different.
     Overall, I really loved Brian’s game. Firstly, it is really user friendly. Clearly lays everything for the player and is accessible. Each decision is played out and printed for the user. He prints over what the user does, the dealers score and then compares the scores. This is also reflected in his code. He writes each line, in the sequential order of the game which I think is admirable. My first code for the game was really disorganized. Function were disbursed throughout the game, things did not work and it became frustrating. Although my code is really organized now, looking at Brian’s code gives me some dies on how to structure my process a bit more in the future. 
     In Brian’s game, I really like how he implemented the full deck of cards and I thought it was interesting how he implemented an ace value. When doing my program, I had not been sure how to implement the ace value. After looking at how he created his list of cards, it was as easy as I had thought it would be and I wish I had implemented it in my own After struggling so much to get the basic requirements, I think I lost my confidence at making anything more advanced. I think his ways was an interesting approach and it works well. He also imported both time and random modules. I really like that he thought of giving the user some suspense while the dealer was taking his turn. It really was suspenseful and made the game really addicting in trying to beat the dealer. I also think the wait time was chosen well and is just the right amount of time without being too long to make the user lose interest but it is not instant gratification or disappointment. I also thought his functions were explicit and the names of the functions adequately described what they would do.  His game was also very playable, well-formatted and ran with no errors. His game starts out giving the player their score and asking if you want to hit or stay. IF the player types H or h, they will get another card. If not, the dealer will be dealt a card and then the scores are compared and the winner is determined. His game can tell if a player won or lost, if they had blackjack or if they busted.
     Regarding Brian’s milestones, they were explicit for the beginning basic functions. He also could implement most of his milestones. The other ones, I think were achievable and hinted towards a great addition to his game. Moreover, they were in a really organized order, one leading to the next which I think shows a lot towards his methods in coding and organizing his ideas. Brian and I also thought similarly in our milestone in wanting to implement more to our games. We both seemed passionate about the future of our games and I think that shows a lot to both our coding and game passion.
