---
layout: post
author: anusha-suresh
title: "Anusha's Meetup Writeup"
---


For my Meetup, I went to the TriPython Project Night. I went with Nura because neither of us wanted to go to an event alone. But half our class was there too, so that was fun. We were some of the first couple people there, other than I think the organizer, Chris Calloway, and some other people who have been attending these meetups. Other than us, some of the others who came work at UNC in different departments, and they use python in their jobs or research. A couple people talked about machine learning, so now I have an abstract idea as to what that is, so that is fun. It was interesting to see that you have got people who are working in the sciences, or places like AT&T who are using python all day every day, so that was cool. The expereience itself was informal, and I know most of us were working on our final projects. Because I was running into a couple errors, I figured I would ask for some help to try to figure out what was going on, so Chris came over and helped. But sadly, some of the things he tried also weren't working. What was really helpful about the whole experience was how nice everyone was. You would see people looking over to the next person and discussing what each other was working on, and it was cool. For me personally, though I still didn't get a solution to my problem, I did pick up a few things along the way, like importing takes things from the outermost level of a module. I'm a little confused now, as to what actually runs when you run a program. After listening to some of the things that were said, I kind of had to question some of things that I thought I knew. That was a little bit of an eye opener, but a good one at that. It was also very very clear that people who have been using python a long time, really like the rules and the norms. Just by watching someone looking at my work and trinket was really telling. The 4 spaces identation was a point of interest. I could tell that some people were not a fan of trinket using 2 spaces, but I learnt that if we were to take my program and put in a place that wasn't trinket, then the program could run errors because of the spaces. A few people frequented the meetings but there were actually some people, other than us, whose first time it was to the meetings. I think there were about 20 people there, and I heard Chris comment that they don't usually get that many people, so he took some pictures. Overall, I think it was a good experience, and these meetps could be something I go to, but I think I would need to learn some more before then, just for me to be at ease with asking questions and working on projects.
