---
layout: post
author: jbfelder
title: "Justyn Felder's Poetry Slam"
---

Here is the embedded code:
  <iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/904b2dcc4f" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
  
Reflection:
  For Poetry Slam, I envisioned the process that I wanted to follow and completed that process step by step. First, I initalized Tina and created code for randomly assigning a color to the background. Then, I proceeded to create an empty list that would hold all strings that would be inputted by the user. I also created response list for whether or not the user responded with a capital or lower-case letter. I then created the code that would take user input, add it to the list, and then print it out. I encapsulated all of this in its own While loop that would end if the user inputted "no" or "No". I then encapsulated the code that would allow the inputted lines to be printed onscreen in its own While loop. I faced a problem where there would only be a space created after the first input, and then all other inputs would be printed on top of one another. To fix this, I moved my rotation code that pointed Tina to the bottome of the screen outside of the second While loop. It was here that I noticed that the two different While loops could be consolidated into one single While loop. With this done, this took care of the base requirements of the assignment. 
  Having time to spare, I then decided to move onto the additional requirements of making sure all text stayed onscreen without exceeding the boundaries. Knowing that I did what text to be print to far down the screen, I created variables that tracked Tina's location and began testing how far down the input could be printed before it went offscreen. After determining how far it could go, I set a condition that would end the program if it attempted to go any further. For the amount of text that could be visible without exceeding the screen width-wise, I simply test the number of characters that could be inputted before going offscreen. Instead of ending the program, I decided to allow the user to simply retype their input to allow new strings to be created to replace to the one that was too long. To do this, I encapsulated all the code inside the While loop in a Try that would only move to the Exception if the man made error was raised. Once this was done, all basic and advance requirements were met thus finishing the assigment.
