---
layout: post
author: grassycheetah94
title: "Thomas Newlin's Meetup Experience"
---

My experience was great. Tripython was very welcoming. Chris Calloway was very welcoming and the members that use python everyday were very nice and more than willing to answer any questions that any of us from INLS 560 had. Right away we learned a little bit about machine learning, as well as the programs within python that make it possible such as pyspark. We also learned a little bit about honeypots and the python honeypot honeypy. And even that Tripython is having an event June 22 where they are bringing in a speaker to Durham to speak on the subject. I also met Brain who was working on three different projects. One called Envs, which uses dictionaries and keys to pull out information in strings of which the purpose i didnt fully understand, but it was something about keeping the user information private and out of the code. 

I found the meeting very helpful and the group even helped me on my code for my final project. This type of group will be very helpful in the future and the future of my python knowledge. The group is full of, although not professional, python teachers who are more than willing to help you on whatever youre struggling with. This will be crucial in my journey of learning python which can not stop with this class. During the meeting I was again introduced to how vast the python world is and how much I still have to learn. 

The experience was really nice. Everyone was working on their own program but was more than willing to help anyone and everyone that had questions. It was very ethinically diverse, but lacked a great woman presence. Although, right on their website they promote an organization called pyladies a group in the area dedicated to serving ladies that code in python. It is definitely a comunity that I plan on joining and continue my journey in learning python. I will be here in Chapel Hill for at least a year so I hope to use this great resource to my advantage. 

