---
layout: post
author: anusha-suresh
title: "Anusha's Dictionary Post"
---

I very much appreciate the concept of dictionaries. When I learned about lists, I kind of understood that there would be a more "readable" I guess we can say, to index our items. For the most part though, dictionaries seem like they have very similar functionalities to lists. Both are similar in that they can be changed and added to. I think that they could be used effectively when working with data sets or when one wants to store a specific set of data points. The main question I have regarding dictionaries, is if we have to hard code the value to each key? I feel like there must be another way to do this, or even avoiding putting values in a list and appending them. I feel lke understanding how to do that could even help on the final project. I am considering doing the data analysis version of the project and incorporating dictionaries might serve myself and potential users well. I'm still kind of confused on using [] brackets with dictionaries as well. I understand how to use them when putting in your key and such, but when we are trying to add to the dictionary I'm still a little fuzzy. I think knowing and reading more about the similarities and differences between lists and dictionaries might help me with this. I think the issue is just I am hung up on something that seems like it should be a non issue. But for the most part, I think it is pretty clear to me what a dictionary should be able to do, though I am wondering if there is a way to reverse keys and values. I know we can't search by the value, but say someone didn't know the key, but they knew the values, would they be able to convert the dictionary to a list a go from there? That I am curious about.
