---
layout: post
author: anusha-suresh
title: "Anusha's Logical Turtles Exercise"
---
Here is my code for the exercise:
  <iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/3486c21ad7" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0"       allowfullscreen></iframe>
  
And my Reflection:
  For this activity my creative head wasn't working as much so I went with what I knew, which was shapes. I knew I understood the concepts for the most part, but conditionals and operators, I wasn't sure how to work them in together. I chose to have the user input a number and as per that number, the turtle drew some kind of shape or object or it even told the user to try again. I felt more comfortable with positions now, but then again, I also just drew a few generic shapes because I wasn't exactly sure how it would turn out. The other  thing I was trying to work out was drawing a square over the entire field, but I soon realized that how the square got drawn depended on shape, so I decided to scrap that idea. Instead, I chose to center the next circles under the first shape, as best I could, so that they would both show up. But, I am thinking that maybe I should have included the code for the big square in each conditional statement instead of at the end of that block, something to think about there. I knew using conditionals there would be the best move, but I still hadn't used operators. At that point I figured "what if I had the user give another input value?" And this idea seemed to work out really well. This time the user is inputing a larger number so as to change the dimensions of the circle. Depending on what number the user inputs the program will conduct some kind of calculation and draw a circle for that result. To make this part work I used more conditionals because that is what made sense to me at the time. I'm still unclear when it comes to loops, but I think when I understand them better, they would have been effective in this assignment and made the code clearer too. Also, I'm not exactly sure what replay value is, so I think that that is something I would need to feel more comfortable with before I use it. I think as I learn more and more skills and have more creative thoughts, I could make a more effective and interesting program by the end of this class.
