---
author: elliott
category: notes
published: false
title: "Mid-semester!"
layout: post
---

# Q & A

* Drafts vs Saving in Trinket
* Reflections: Thank you!  Great to see the thought you put into these.
* Seeing old code with new eyes is so valuable
* Nice problem solving attitudes!  I saw so many feels in your posts:  
  * confidence
  * infuriating
  * furtrating
  * centered
  * wrestled
  * enjoyed
  * helpful
  * persistence
  * beautiful
  * nervous
  * fun
  * "driver of my struggle bus"
  * "not nearly as horrible as I feared it would be"
  * "With continuous practice and effort put into the exercises, I can become a great programmer." :star: :heart: :fire: :boom:!!
* I'm not lying when I say that knowing how you're feeling is a core competency of programming.
* Supportive community of people learning to code: http://www.codenewbie.org/
* Pair programming feedback (disclaimer: I like 3 hour classes much better)

# Kudos

There were lots of great refactors.  Will's is an example of that:

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/cb8a648b80" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Tracer and Update

`.tracer(x)` makes the animation update only every x frames, which makes it go faster.  If you use `.tracer(0)`, no frames will update.  What?

Never fear: `.update()` will force the animation to be redrawn.  Setting tracer to 0 then updating can be a way to instantly set up your screen.

`.tracer(1000)` is used in the tetris program because so many animations are happening they need to skip 999 of them to make it a playable game.
Kudos to those of you who figured this out and started messing with them.  Use these tools in your drawing app!

# Refactoring

[Definition here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_refactoring).

# Remote Classes 

They're coming!  Let's talk details real quick.

Remember this?

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/61d7e90ab0" width="100%" height="356" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

`tina.click()` is an easy way to make a button.  When Yiyang (I think it was) did this, she made a colored
dot under a triangular turtle to make buttons.  Get creative!  See also the upcoming videos.

# Confidential Feedback

Thanks for the feedback in your reflections.  Got some feedback for me?  Fill out some or all of this form, name optional:

[link](https://docs.google.com/a/trinket.io/forms/d/1YHLVTfvhadfQNPXdm0aUfG1NDnaBmIDy1j_QAzPjFqo/viewform?usp=send_form)

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/a/trinket.io/forms/d/1YHLVTfvhadfQNPXdm0aUfG1NDnaBmIDy1j_QAzPjFqo/viewform?embedded=true" width="760" height="500" frameborder="0" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0">Loading...</iframe>



# Pair up, Warm up, go!

[Here's today's exercise](/spring2016/exercise/reflection-inclass.html)