---
author: elliott
category: notes
layout: post
title: "Poetry Code Talks; Let's learn files"
---

# Q&A


Some App stuff:

- Attributes for specific turtles to make buttons

# App clinic June 6th, 5-6:30pm

Stay after class for help with your Blackjack or Drawing apps.

# First Steps

Would anyone volunteer to show what they have so for for their Drawing or Blackjack app?  The earlier stage, the better.  My goal is to help people get an idea of how to get started.

# Looking ahead: Games!

Your second project is due before spring break: make a Game app using Turtle.
Thursday you'll have miletones, we'll do an in-class peer clinic, but there will
be no snapshot or peer review this time.  Everything should be pretty familiar!

Think of this as more of a 'game sketch' like I describe in the video than a full
featured game.  If you choose to make a game for your final you can do all the bells
and whistles.

# Python 3

We'll be using Python 3 in Trinket for all text-based work.  Remember your `print()` functions.

`sep=" "` lets you specify what the seperator between arguments is.  It defaults to a space.

`end='\n'` lets you specify what to do at the end of the print functin.  It defaults to a newline.

You can make anonymous Python 3 trinkets on Trinket for free.  If you want the convenience of saving your
Python 3 trinkets to your account, you should use code `inls560` to get our premium plan at a huge discount of $4.50 a month.

# (Quick) Poetry Review

You'll be adding file handling to your Slam poetry this week.  If your program needs updates, or you'd like to improve on it, **duplicate** it.  You may also post the updated version as a clearly updated update to your original post.

Basic architecture:

* Read user input to build a **list** of lines of poetry
* Use that list + a `for` loop to write user's input to screen, moving turtle for each line.

A solid example:

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/eda6fcdf0c" width="100%" height="356" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Creative formatting!

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/bdc5ac1ca9" width="100%" height="356" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Pairup & Merge up.

# Files

There are a few core actions you should be able to perform on files:

* Open them (Dr. Chuck)
* Search/extract information from them (Dr. Chuck)
* Build a data structure from them (not really Dr. Chuck)
* Explore your data (not really Dr. Chuck)
* Print a table from your data (not Dr. Chuck)

We'll do all of these today.

Something Dr. Chuck didn't cover: the `with` statement.  This is the Pythonic way to open a file:

```python
with open("sales.csv") as file:
  sales_raw = file.read()
  # Or, if you need lines:
  sales_lines = file.readlines()
```

Otherwise you'll have to open and close the file handler and it's a pain.

# Lists of Lists

Making a list full of lists gives you some interesting powers.  First, you can think of each item in
the main list as a row and each item in the interior lists as a cell/column.  As long as you keep the lengths
constant you've got what amounts to a spreadsheet, but in Python!

Here's how you can visualize a list of lists:

```
[ [... , ... , ...]
  [... , ... , ...]
  [... , ... , ...]
  [... , ... , ...]
  [... , ... , ...] ]
```

This one has five rows and three columns.

To work with lists of lists you'll nee lots of **slicing** and **indexing**.  Remember the `list[x:y:z]` syntax.

Let's get to work!  I recommend you read over questions 1-3 briefly and then go straight to exercise 4.  Let me orient you briefly.
