---
layout: post
author: elliott
categories:
  - exercise
title: "Chapter 8 MOAR Exercises"
inclass: true
published: false
---

Pair up.  Review and Merge each others' work.

**Submit a pull request with a jointly authored post** containing the below exercises.
Work in a pair programming style with your partner:

*"Pair programming consists of two programmers sharing a single workstation (one screen, keyboard and mouse among the pair). The programmer at the keyboard is usually called the "driver", the other, also actively involved in the programming task but focusing more on overall direction is the "navigator"; it is expected that the programmers swap roles every few minutes or so. - See more [here](http://guide.agilealliance.org/guide/pairing.html)"*

To indicate multiple authors on your post, use the following in your YAML header:

```
author: 
- elliott
- gao14g
```

The above code would indicate that the post was by Ga Kay and me.  If you have a trio,
add another line with the third author's name.

___

**Exercise 4**

Write a program that asks for a filename, opens it, and reads it line by line. 
For each line, split the line into a list of words using the split function.
For each word, check to see if the word is already in a list. If the word is not in the list, add it to the list.

When the program completes, sort and print the resulting words in alphabetical order.

```
Enter file: romeo.txt
['Arise', 'But', 'It', 'Juliet', 'Who', 'already',
'and', 'breaks', 'east', 'envious', 'fair', 'grief',
'is', 'kill', 'light', 'moon', 'pale', 'sick', 'soft',
'sun', 'the', 'through', 'what', 'window',
'with', 'yonder']
```

**Remix** this starter code:

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/4d77013d1d" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Exercise 5**

Write a program to read through the mail box data and when you find line 
that starts with "From", you will split the line into words using the split function. 
We are interested in who sent the message, which is the second word on the From line.

```
From stephen.marquard@uct.ac.za Sat Jan 5 09:14:16 2008
```

You will parse the From line and print out the second word for each From line, then you will 
also count the number of From (not From:) lines and print out a count at the end.

This is a good sample output with a few lines removed:

```
Enter a file name: mbox-short.txt
stephen.marquard@uct.ac.za
louis@media.berkeley.edu
zqian@umich.edu

[...some output removed...]

ray@media.berkeley.edu
cwen@iupui.edu
cwen@iupui.edu
cwen@iupui.edu
There were 27 lines in the file with From as the first word
```

**Remix** this starter code:

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/db5f2acbd8" width="100%" height="356" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>


**Exercise 6**

Rewrite the program that prompts the user for a list of numbers and prints out the maximum and minimum 
of the numbers at the end when the user enters "done". Write the program to store the numbers the user 
enters in a list and use the max() and min() functions to compute the maximum and minimum numbers 
after the loop completes.

```
Enter a number: 6
Enter a number: 2
Enter a number: 9
Enter a number: 3
Enter a number: 5
Enter a number: done
Maximum: 9.0
Minimum: 2.0
```

No starter code for this.  Even if you already did this, re-write the program from scratch **without looking at example code.**