---
layout: post
author: grassycheetah94
title: "Thomas Newlin's Drawing App Project"
---
Welcome to Ocean Draw: 

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/9d9f724b18" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

```python
Milestone List:
Step 1-
  Figure Out What Key Functions I wanted to use/Code for them
    -Finished Night 1 (1/2 hours)
Step 2-
  Code For On Screen Instructions
    -Finished Night 2 (2/3 hours)
Step 3-
  Code for Usability
    -Boundaries
    -User Knows What Mode They Are In
    -Finished Night 2/3 (3/4 hours)
```

Reflection:
I wanted to create a drawing app that was entirely keyboard based. I think it is very easy for the user to use and understand how to use my app. I would obviously like to improve some aspects of the app I think I was successful in creating an app people could use to create some rather cool art. 
What went well:
I was able to create a list of colors and display them on the screen in a way that the user can easily cycle through them and go back and forth using shift and enter. This was key as colors are essential to a drawing app and being able to pick from a decent amount of colors is paramount to creating artwork.  I was also able to create boundaries in which keeps the user on the "canvas" and off the instructions tabl and out of the "invisible screen". One of my prouder achievements was creating the blinking orange light to signify if the user was in penup or pendown mode. I gave the user the ability to create stars, circles, as well as stumbled upon a happy accident that allowed users to draw a dashed line by holding the space bar. I added the palm tree, boat, and human functions as just an added visual just for fun on the first night, and thus Ocean Draw became the name of my drawing app. At the last minute I was able to figure out how to tell the user what their pensize is. 
Improvements:
While I was able to create boundaries I want to make it so that they are more solid and tina litterally cant go passed them. I would also like to make everything clearer/bigger if I were to update it.  I would also add clicking functions although I like the fact that it is all keyboard based. It reminds me of old videogames and that gives me a certain nostalgia. 

Overall:
This was a really cool project and I cant wait to see what other people come up with!
